[Speaker 2] (0:18 - 0:32)
So, obviously, before we get into any actual questions, just give me the context. So give name, graduating class, current college, what you're doing. Just the short summary of who you are.

[Speaker 1] (0:32 - 0:50)
Sure, so my name is Sophia Anderson. I graduated Liberia Classical Academy, class of 2025. I'll be graduating Dallas Baptist University, class of 2029.

Right now, I run on the track team and I study pre-physicians assistant right now. And I compete in the heptathlon and patathlon.

[Speaker 2] (0:51 - 1:00)
Nice. So the first question, we'll start way back at the beginning, is how did you first get started in the sport of track and field?

[Speaker 1] (1:01 - 1:09)
I just kind of started track as a way to stay in shape outside of the basketball season. And I started basketball back in like elementary. And then just never stopped.

[Speaker 2] (1:10 - 1:23)
So you mentioned basketball and you've done a broad range of athletics and other activities. So how did track fit into that picture as you began to progress through school?

[Speaker 1] (1:24 - 1:38)
Yeah, so I started basketball originally and then started track in middle school to kind of help basketball. And then with track along came weights, which then came powerlifting, which also got fit in there. And then I competed all three my senior year.

[Speaker 2] (1:39 - 1:55)
Wow, that's pretty diverse for sure. When you think about yourself, whether that's connected to the sport, whether that's separate from the sport, what matters most to you, whether that's in relation to the sport, but also just as a whole?

[Speaker 1] (1:56 - 2:09)
Sure, I'd say right now the most important thing is my faith, I think above everything else. But then also that ties into a lot of other aspects of my life. I see it in track, I see it in the things that I study.

I guess, yeah, just how it kind of intertwines with everything else.

[Speaker 2] (2:10 - 2:20)
Tell me a little bit more about that. If it's weaving through all of these different facets of your life, how do you feel that it continues to show up and connect those pieces of your life together?

[Speaker 1] (2:22 - 2:30)
How does it continue to show up? It's okay. We need a different question.

[Speaker 2] (2:30 - 2:45)
That's all right. So you mentioned that you currently do the heptathlon and you did multiple events when you competed in high school. How did being a multi-event athlete in the sport of track shape your mindset as you viewed the sport?

[Speaker 1] (2:46 - 3:08)
I think being a multi-athlete, eventually I will be good at all seven, or I hope to be. But right now you just kind of start out and you're just learning everything new. And it really just gives you the mindset of, right now it's not that deep.

Because if you're doing one thing and you don't think you're that great at it, sucks. You have six more events to go do. You don't have time to cry over it.

You just got to get up, keep going. At the end of the day, it's not that deep.

[Speaker 2] (3:10 - 3:33)
So especially, you've joined College Track, you've had to learn javelin. You picked up shot and high jump in the later years of your track and field career in high school. How did you approach learning all of these new events?

And this can even carry into the other disciplines that you've done, like power lifting. How did you approach learning these new things without being afraid to fail or accounting for that failure in the process?

[Speaker 1] (3:33 - 3:45)
I think it's something we're definitely still learning. But at the end of the day, you just, you don't have time to cry over it. You just got to get up, keep going.

You have more things to do in your life than worry about your failures. I don't know.

[Speaker 2] (3:47 - 4:09)
It's so true. So you saw a lot of competitive success at the high school level. And I know you hope to continue that into the collegiate sector.

But with high achievement comes high standards and high expectations. So how did you deal with those high expectations both from others and internally within yourself?

[Speaker 1] (4:10 - 4:31)
For a while, I didn't. That was great. I think it's just a really big mindset change.

I mean, obviously it's something that I'm still working on, probably will be working on for a long time. But at the end of the day, you just got to get up and dust yourself off. It's not that deep.

We're out here competing, having a good time, but you're only going to get better if you keep going. You just have to dust yourself off and keep going.

[Speaker 2] (4:34 - 4:43)
Were there moments where things didn't go as planned for you? How did that make you feel in the moment? And then how did you respond and grow from it?

[Speaker 1] (4:44 - 5:06)
Yeah. I don't know. Of course, everyone has their moments where they wish they could have done something else or where they wish that they would have done it better, but...

I don't know. I don't know how else to wrap it. Um...

I don't know what else to say besides you got to just get up. You got to keep going. There's not really any time.

You just kind of have to go. I don't know what else to say.

[Speaker 2] (5:08 - 5:17)
Do you find that in those moments you try to move forward quickly or do you spend time with that before processing it and growing from it?

[Speaker 1] (5:18 - 5:35)
I think there's definitely, there's definitely room for both. I would say personally I work, but I just don't think about it until later, which I know might be either good or bad, but personally I choose to just not think about it, move on, and then later when I have time to process, time to think about it, then I really try to work through that.

[Speaker 2] (5:36 - 6:01)
Nice. You are currently an NCAA athlete. You saw a lot of success in the high school arena.

There are a lot of younger athletes, whether in this program and other programs that see you kind of as a role model of who they want to be, what they want to do. What would you want a younger athlete who's, say, just starting out to know or understand?

[Speaker 1] (6:02 - 6:22)
It's not always gonna go the way you want to, but it's good to go out and try, just see what happens. Go try new things, even if you're, I don't know, later in high school or even like that. Go try new things, because you might have fun.

It's not that deep. Care enough to show up, but beyond that just go have fun. Put in the time, be with your teammates and your coaches, and enjoy the experience.

[Speaker 2] (6:23 - 6:32)
Nice. When you think about your time on our team, what did being part of this team mean to you?

[Speaker 1] (6:34 - 6:55)
I don't know. I love this team. I love the community.

My little home team. I think we have a really special community because of how small the school is, in that the upperclassmen really do, like, we interact with the underclassmen, I would say, a lot. We get to really come alongside them, both on and off the track, and kind of mentor them.

[Speaker 2] (6:57 - 7:08)
Speaking of mentorship, you were a team captain for many years on this team. How did you view leadership in this sport?

[Speaker 1] (7:10 - 7:30)
I think it's a lot different than being a team captain of other teams, because it's so much of an individual sport rather than working on a team together, just in a different way. Really just coming alongside people, being there for them both on and off the track, I think especially. Sharing from your experience, and just learning from each other.

[Speaker 2] (7:31 - 7:45)
Did you feel that, even though you were captain of a certain discipline, did you find that that leadership extended into other areas of the team, and you were able to mentor and help athletes in other disciplines in this sport as well?

[Speaker 1] (7:46 - 7:59)
Yeah, I would say so. Because even if it's not something like, I don't know, if it's an event I've never done, I'm not gonna coach them on that event, but I can still show them how to show up, how to be a good student athlete, how to do other things like that.

[Speaker 2] (8:02 - 8:08)
When you think about our team, what moments best capture the culture of our program?

[Speaker 1] (8:10 - 8:31)
I think the true team four by four that we had. There's only four athletes running, but I think the whole team really rallies to go show their support, go be with them, following them around the whole track, or any of our conference meets, where of course we, I don't know. Just all the moments we were together as a big team, able to support each other, be there for one another.

[Speaker 2] (8:32 - 8:36)
Do you have moments with the team or with your teammates that still stand out to you now?

[Speaker 1] (8:37 - 9:02)
From Liberty? Like all of them. Yeah, I would say the true team four by four, definitely, where there's only those four guys running, but the whole team was there, everyone was supporting each other, everyone was cheering them on.

Most of our team dinners, I would say. Even like time off the track, where we're just hanging out, having a good time, enjoying each other's company while still learning. I don't know, that's all I got.

[Speaker 2] (9:04 - 9:18)
You talked about leadership and mentorship. What would you say to someone who wants to be a great teammate or leader on this team? What do you feel that that looks like if they were trying to embody those values?

[Speaker 1] (9:20 - 9:34)
If you're just trying to be a good leader, just show up, love other people, do what you need to do, be part of the team. Prioritize your teammates over yourself, I would say. Do well in school, on track, off the track.

[Speaker 2] (9:38 - 9:50)
So now coming forward to your transition out of this program and into Dallas Baptist, how would you describe the culture and the faith environment of the DBU program?

[Speaker 1] (9:51 - 10:13)
I'd say the DBU, we have a really strong faith component. We always, we start and end with prayer. We have really good, I'd say a good Christian community.

We have Bible studies on our team that we go to. I think our team is really rooted in Christ. I think it shows through in our community, at meets, at practices, just like on campus, walking around, things like that.

[Speaker 2] (10:16 - 10:32)
Where do you feel that the culture from our team versus the DBU team overlaps? What are the through lines that you see that you felt followed you from this program into that one?

[Speaker 1] (10:32 - 10:51)
I think the great communities. I think both here and at DBU, we have really strong communities where everyone can be there for each other. Everyone is always at someone else's side.

If it's, I don't know, like if you're in an event that no one else is competing in or no one else is experiencing, you still have teammates that are by your side. I think that's what's really important.

[Speaker 2] (10:54 - 11:04)
What did you feel from our program that you were prepared for when you arrived at DBU? And what might have surprised or challenged you?

[Speaker 1] (11:04 - 11:36)
Sure, so I think that some of the biggest things that Liberty track has taught me is not even necessarily like track things, if that makes sense. Just how to be a good student athlete, how to show up, how to be a captain, how to be part of a good team, things like that. I think that in the DBU team, the thing that surprised me is just like, I would say truly like the amount of training.

Like we really do a lot. We spend more time on the track than like in class, I would say. But it's all great.

No complaints.

[Speaker 2] (11:39 - 11:56)
I wanna follow up on the volume of training that you're doing at DBU in contrast to what we're doing here. How did you feel that the two different styles of running a track and field team both helped you for your development?

[Speaker 1] (11:57 - 12:20)
Sure, so I think in high school, it's definitely you're a student and then you run on the side, which of course, when you're in high school, I think that's how it should be because you're there, you're in high school. And then in college, it's a lot more, obviously we are there to get an education, all of that, but we get to focus so much more on being just an athlete and then you get to go to class every once in a while. But yeah.

[Speaker 2] (12:22 - 12:37)
How do you feel from an athlete side? How do you feel that like a low volume model like what we're doing versus a higher volume model? How are the differences in how you have felt that in your training as an athlete?

[Speaker 1] (12:40 - 12:58)
That was definitely one of the things that surprised me about DBU. We knew going in that it was definitely more of like a mid-distance program and that the volume was gonna be high, but I didn't think it would be as high as it is. I think they're both beneficial.

I think they both have their strengths and weaknesses. But I think there's just a good mix that you can find between the two of them.

[Speaker 2] (12:59 - 13:02)
Do you sometimes miss a lower volume program?

[Speaker 1] (13:02 - 13:25)
Yes. We run a lot. But yeah, good things.

It just, I don't know. Like I have to train for different things now because now I have an 800 to worry about, which I never had to worry about before or I have a lot different events I have to train for and things like that. So of course we do have to run a little bit more, but yeah, I do miss like the three reps of something and then you get to go home.

[Speaker 2] (13:28 - 13:38)
When you think about your DBU team, what do you appreciate most about your college coaches? And then we'll follow up with, what do you appreciate most about your college teammates?

[Speaker 1] (13:39 - 14:16)
I would say for my coaches, I really appreciate how they are there for you 24 seven. Truly like I, they are there for us all the time. I don't know how else to say that, but they're there for any of the problems that we could have as a college athlete or even just a college student in general.

And then I would say for my teammates, we're just there to each other. I mean, we all live together. We're always there to support each other, like truly 24 seven.

We have this great community where, I mean, we have our Bible study and things like that, where we're all just doing life together, whether it's on the track, off the track, or just living life together.

[Speaker 2] (14:18 - 14:26)
What is one thing about heptathlon training at DBU that might've surprised you or pushed you in ways that you didn't expect?

[Speaker 1] (14:27 - 14:58)
Probably the volume of training, because some days we have to show up early for practice and then run the normal practice and then stay late for something else. Or on days where everyone else is doing active recovery, we are not doing active recovery, we're throwing, or we're doing a mid-distance workout or things like that. I'd say the thing that challenged me the most was definitely a lot more running.

Things that we didn't really do here. And just all the different things we have to practice for. Because when you have seven events, you don't get to take a ton of time to refine one little thing.

You have to spread your time across either five or seven different events.

[Speaker 2] (15:01 - 15:20)
How does that balance feel for you as an athlete? How do you balance those things? Because obviously there's a structural component from the training that is applied from your coaches to help make sure that you can train for everything effectively.

But as an athlete, how do you balance doing so many different things in any given week?

[Speaker 1] (15:20 - 15:53)
I'd say just prioritize your time. Give yourself breaks. I think it took a long time for me to realize that taking breaks and taking time off will actually help you a lot more than just try harding your way through the entire thing.

I think too many times I just went as hard as I could, as fast as I could just to get through it and burned out pretty quickly. I would say once you just take, even if it's just like a few minutes to go for a walk or stop studying for a few minutes or go stretch or roll up, things like that. Those help you kind of slow down and be able to get through everything and enjoy the experience along the way.

[Speaker 2] (15:56 - 16:22)
I wanna go a little deeper on that because you also did a lot of different events at the high school level. How did you balance in the high school ecosystem doing all of those things concurrently? Because you do have a lot more time in the college space to train and focus on your training.

In the high school setting, it is more focused on your academics. How did you still maintain the balance of doing so many different things in that high school ecosystem?

[Speaker 1] (16:23 - 16:42)
I would say for sure high school is a lot more difficult to do that because you do have your set hours where you have to be at school. You have to do all your things. It was so much more difficult in high school.

I don't know. Use your time wisely. Get your homework done, but don't be a perfectionist about it.

Get your training in, get your rest in. I don't know.

[Speaker 2] (16:46 - 17:01)
Oh, this is my favorite question on the sheet. When you reflect on your journey so far as an athlete and as a person from high school up until where you are now, what are you most grateful for?

[Speaker 1] (17:06 - 17:15)
I'm grateful for the community around me, for coaches, teammates, people that'll come alongside me and push me when I didn't want to be pushed because I know I wouldn't have done it by myself for sure.

[Speaker 2] (17:19 - 17:29)
You've talked about a faith component in the DVU program. There's a strong faith component in the high school program. How do you see God's hand through your athletic story?

[Speaker 1] (17:31 - 17:50)
I think that I see God's hand in my determination. I think that he wired me in a way where I will just get up and keep going and he does give me the strength to get through it because whenever I really sit and think about it, I'm like, gosh, why do I do this? Like, it's so much work and it's so much energy, but I love it.

And he gave me a love for the sport. He gave me the strength to get through it.

[Speaker 2] (17:52 - 18:13)
Are there moments where that determination feels hard to you? Or has it always come naturally and you always feel like there's that underlying will to go on? Or are there moments where you do struggle with the motivation to show up to the next workout, to remember that you have to train for this the next day?

Do you find any difficulties and wavering in that determination?

[Speaker 1] (18:13 - 18:35)
Oh, for sure, for sure. You definitely have some days that are tougher than others, but I don't know. I always know you have to keep going.

You have to keep, like, I don't know. I don't know how else to say that, but at the end of the day, you just have to keep going. I mean, you're not gonna quit.

The world keeps spinning. Just get up and put in the work. It'll pay off eventually.

Just keep going. Just keep swimming.

[Speaker 2] (18:40 - 18:47)
What do you wish that you had understood earlier about growth, patience, or trusting the process?

[Speaker 1] (18:50 - 19:14)
I wish I would have known that you're gonna fail a lot more than you think you are, because once you set a plan, that doesn't mean anything. You just have to keep... You just have to embrace the failure sometimes, learn from it.

If you just ignore when you fail, you're not going to learn anything from it. You're not gonna improve yourself. I think when you fail, you have to really take time to embrace that, learn from it.

Don't just ignore it.

[Speaker 2] (19:19 - 19:32)
What would you say as someone who has many years of lived experience in this sport? What would you say to someone who might be on the fence about pursuing track and field or joining track?

[Speaker 1] (19:33 - 20:08)
I would say just go for it. Go have fun. If you're really worried about it, bring a friend.

Worst case scenario, you both have a good time together. I think that track is one of those sports where it really just teaches you how to be athletic. So it helps with other sports as well.

But so much of track is just having fun with your friends, because you're all training for similar things, I would say. And then that meets practice things. There's a lot of time where you're just not able to compete, not doing whatever, and you can just be with your friends and enjoy the community.

I would say just go for it. Worst case scenario, what you embarrass yourself, get over it. It'll just be fun.

Go do the sport that you love.

[Speaker 2] (20:11 - 20:26)
You mentioned that track teaches you to be athletic and that it helps with your other sports. How did you feel that engaging in track and field helped carry into the other athletic disciplines that you pursued?

[Speaker 1] (20:27 - 20:45)
I think I saw it in basketball a lot when my jump got a lot higher and I got a lot faster. It made me a lot stronger, especially with the way it's out of season, which then turned into power lifting, which has been a whole nother thing. But it's really just a lot of everything.

Helps your vertical, helps your speed, helps your power. Honestly, that's all I got.

[Speaker 2] (20:48 - 21:10)
Our last question is, in the Liberty community, we currently have a large disparity between men and women engaging in sport. What encouragement would you give to young women who want to pursue excellence in sport and in faith?

[Speaker 1] (21:13 - 21:40)
I would say don't be discouraged because there's only a few other people. Fewer people just means you get to make a bigger splash when you go try. But I think it's really important to know that having a really strong faith and having a really strong athletic career are things that can go hand in hand.

They're things that work together. You don't need to ditch one to pursue the other. I think if you just prioritize one and the other, I think they'll go really well together and they do help each other grow as well.

[Speaker 2] (21:42 - 21:55)
Did you feel that even though we compete as a women's team and a men's team, did you feel that you had a bond with the men on our team as well as the women on our team?

[Speaker 1] (21:56 - 22:07)
Oh, of course. Yeah, we all practice together even though we don't necessarily. We're two teams.

But we practice together, we all hang out, we all stay together, we're all still in touch, things like that.

[Speaker 2] (22:09 - 22:22)
Awesome. Are there any other notes that you want to close with in reflection of your experience from our high school team into your collegiate team now?

[Speaker 1] (22:23 - 22:35)
Oh, I don't know. I love this team. I love our little community.

Always come back to it. I don't know.

[Speaker 2] (22:39 - 22:40)
Awesome.

[Speaker 1] (22:40 - 22:42)
I wish I had something better to say on that, but.

[Speaker 2] (22:42 - 23:39)
That's okay. It's all just about getting your lived experience. Because when I think about everything so far, it's easy as a coach to look at how you've come, but it's totally different in your experience.

And we also have people who have no idea what you've gone through. We have people who have no idea about the sport in general. And so, I mean, I feel like a lot of your responses, it's great because some people, they don't have a lot of exposure to this sport as a whole.

Actually, that is a good question that I didn't think of on the sheet that I probably should ask. For individuals who don't know much about the sport, how do you see track as something that is unique and or beneficial in relation to the other athletic experiences you've had?

[Speaker 1] (23:40 - 24:03)
It's definitely, it's still a team sport, I would say in a different way. It's really individual. There's something for everyone because you have such a wide range of athletes.

You have like the cross country runners, you have the throwers, jumpers, anyone like that. If you want to join track, there is an event for you and you will find something that you enjoy and you are good at. But I love that even though we're all training different things, we're all still one team.

[Speaker 2] (24:05 - 24:40)
That's true. Speaking personally, that's also one of my favorite things about our sport is that we have such a diverse array of people with different talents. And it's truly something special to watch people who are so different from one another all come together under the same team.

And everyone can cheer everyone on because you as a sprinter can look at the distance runners and say, I can't do that. I can't run a mile like you can, but I sure can cheer you on in your pursuit of doing your event.

[Speaker 1] (24:40 - 24:40)
Exactly.

[Speaker 2] (24:41 - 24:51)
And I know other people have done the same thing for you where they've looked at what you've been able to do and they go, I could never do that, but I will stand on the sidelines and I will cheer as loud as I can.

[Speaker 1] (24:51 - 25:17)
We had an experience like when we, the first night we went to the meet, it was just the pent crew and the 5K crew. And we stood there while they ran for 16 laps and we cheered and we were on our feet the whole time. I think it just kind of shows like the whole DBU meet experience, I think, because we've had people transfer over that say, oh, I transferred here because we saw DBU at meets and we want what they have and we want that community and that cheering and that love that they have for each other on the sport.

[Speaker 2] (25:18 - 25:42)
Tell me a little bit about that, actually. I'm really curious about, you kind of lit up when you reflected on DBU showing up at meets. How are meets different as a college athlete?

What do you feel is special about how your team is when they compete? And how do you feel that that's different, whether that's separate from what you did in high school or the same?

[Speaker 1] (25:42 - 26:16)
I think some of what makes it a lot more different in college is that you're, not that in high school you're not invested, but it's just so much more different because you put a lot more time into being a college athlete versus a high school athlete, just because of time commitments, being a student, things like that. But we've put so much work and so much training into being a college athlete and being able to show up, show other schools, show each other. I lost it.

[Speaker 2] (26:21 - 26:36)
In that first meet, you had, obviously there were many unique experiences there. How did that experience feel for you as someone who hasn't been a part of that environment in the collegiate space, experiencing it for the first time?

[Speaker 1] (26:36 - 27:15)
Oh my gosh, it was so great. There were just so many new things to take in. I think the whole day I was just, oh my gosh, it was so fun.

And of course the team is great. Everyone was there for me. People cheer me on if they haven't heard of any of my events or things like that.

But the whole team is there. The whole team is cheering. The meet was great.

I mean, we were just doing things the whole day from one event to the next to the next and so on, but just a whole new experience. I would say, even if it doesn't go the exact way you want it to, you still gotta, it's still fun. You're still with your team.

At the end of the day, your team is there to support you and you're there just having a good time.

[Speaker 2] (27:17 - 27:28)
When you think about meets back in high school, and especially as people who haven't experienced a track meet before, how does it compare to other sports and how we compete?

[Speaker 1] (27:35 - 28:14)
I think it really shows how it is, obviously it's an individual sport, but it's also such a team thing because you're able to come alongside others, cheer them on, even though you don't really know that event or you couldn't really compete in that event, but you go cheer them on because they're part of your team. And it's just so, I think the track community is so strong because we spend so much time together, even when we're not competing. I had, at the meet one time, I'll run an event in the morning and that'll be great, my team will cheer me on, and then for seven more hours, then I just cheer on other people and then maybe I'll run again, or I think we just have a really good community.

I know I've been saying it and I don't know what else to say.

[Speaker 2] (28:15 - 28:41)
But I feel like it's important that it's come up so many times because it really shows that that is the piece for you that has been the important part, is having a strong community, having people to lean on, and having people supporting you as a network. It shows how important that is to you. And so I feel like the fact that it's showing up as a theme isn't a bad thing at all.

It just shows how important it is to you.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)